hey what up I'm just back from the gym I
realize eighty percent of my videos
these days start with me saying I'm just
back from the ship but that's because I
don't have a lot of other things going
on in my life aside from going to the
gym and spending long hours studying
Chinese mmm I remember not too long ago
one of my detractors one of my haters
here on the internet complained that he
didn't think I was really going to
university because i was uploading so
many videos she was probably saying like
if you see a 15-minute video on my
channel you realize it took me 15
minutes and one second of record right
like there's there's no there's no real
preparation there's no scripting process
my publicist Morty my agent you know the
the executives at a ballast CL
broadcasting corporation they don't get
too involved with the creative process I
have a lot of you know independent you
know agency here to just come on camera
and start talking so no it's it doesn't
distract too much from my studies the
problem of anything you know what does
take time is if you make a video and
you're not certain you want to upload it
and then you watch it three or four
times to make sure you're a hundred
percent sure that cuts into your
schedule but if you're comfortable with
what you're saying if you're not pushing
your limits 15 minutes make a 15-minute
video and upload i'm making this video
right now in response to two new
subscribers on patreon it's always nice
when I can take the time to say hi to
people who've paid the one dollar to
sign up so one of them is they named cam
and one is named Stan so by default i
just use people's first name so they're
a little bit anonymous if they've signed
up to support me thank you very much for
your one dollar a month currently
patreon is the only income i have on
planet earth we'll see how that works
out i don't even mean long-term so cam
sent me a message saying I've been
listening to your content over the last
few weeks I definitely don't agree with
everything you say but that is the damn
point thank you cam not only you
disagree with me and you appreciate the
disagreement you're willing to pay one
dollar to go on disagree with me so
thank you it shows some depth show some
character in your part so he he says
further I appreciate an intellectual
challenge to my beliefs and opinions on
a regular basis great me too I make
these kind of videos because the kind of
videos I'd want to watch myself if if I
was one of you if I was just a viewer
and not a youtuber and of course i had
that period of my life really right
after my daughter was born you know
during that period where i was taking
care of the newborn baby where i would
try to listen to podcasts about veganism
while I was washing the dishes other
things that you know or intelligent
youtube videos really well it was
cooking and washing the dishes and man
they're just there just wasn't enough
out there but that was before I started
recording uploading my videos so I know
what it's like and hate what I do is not
for everybody but I know I myself if I
were in the audience I'd appreciate it
and there was a time when I was just no
idea it's not make my own videos so he
cam goes on to ask do you think that
Hollywood can play an important role in
spreading veganism throughout Western
culture you know and he then he then
talks about some of the things he
mentioned some of my own past videos
that have comments selling to this
question and he he says that a certain
Hollywood personality reflected that
movies were part of the process of
homosexuality being more and more
accepted in the Western world of
representation of gay characters in
cinema etc well cam that is an
interesting example but it may be a
holotype Hollywood movies have they led
to the greater acceptance of
african-americans or the greater
demonization of african-americans and
you know although it's problematic
within the United States how black
people are portrayed in cinema and how
that shapes people's expectations of
them it's even more problematic if you
think it would help like people are
perceived in Japan or in China where a
you know they're only impression of
african-americans is via American movies
American cinema and normally only the
most successful only the blockbuster
movies there
going to see a small arthouse film about
the black experience in America a few
years back more than 10 years ago i
remember in canada we had a lot of soul
searching about the representation of
italians in cinema and in television
because the the italian canadian
community they were politically
organized they were actually complaining
to the press to the to the government
and to to newspapers and so on that they
were really encountering different kinds
of hostility and misconceptions with who
they are because of the way Italians as
an ethnic at that time she's probably
around the year 2000 I forget how
Italians are being represented saying
look this is not who we are and now you
can imagine part of the problem there
even though Italians are not a visible
minority in the same way as
african-americans Italians sometimes or
it's not even mentioned that a character
is Italian but if it is mentioned
they're Italian then they will very
often be a bad stereotype so this is a
shallow response to part of your
question but I'm pointing out that
although you can I think find positive
examples of how movies have helped to
advance just the you know sympathetic
attitude toward homosexual people in not
just Western culture the whole world's
culture there are counter examples that
are that are troubling and now if we
want to ask about selling a little bit
deeper a little more sophisticated a
little bit more politically demanding do
you think that Hollywood movies have
advanced democracy it's actually very
difficult question to answer how is
democracy perceived because of its
representation as a rakan squads of its
reputation of movies in china in japan
in india in indonesia i think sadly if
you look at a more more um you know
complex loaded demanding concept not
just something like acceptance of
homosexuals you're going to come to too
much more troubling set of conclusions
so can Hollywood play a role in
spreading because their Western culture
sadly my two-part answer this is one I
think I think the first part it's going
to be like the representation of
african-americans or Italian Americans
as bad stereotypes in Hollywood movies I
think you're going to have the crazy
vegan as a comedic character in the
background we've already seen that so
you're going to have vegan hipster or
vegan may be vegan yoga instructor you
know as something in comedies or what
have you character falls in love with a
woman who's a yoga instructor but she's
vegan and he's he can't put up with her
this kind of thing I think is going to
be the main representation of vegans for
many many years to come could be worse
but I i know i think actually it's going
to reinforce negative expectations
negative stereotypes and the same way
that italians got fed up with people
thinking that they're gangsters or think
that there are certain kind of comedic
character certain kinds of over-the-top
behaviors i think actually that is what
we're in for in the next 10-15 years but
you asked in the hypothetical can cinema
needs to meet you feel positive they can
will it another question they can though
sure can be tremendously positive so
Stan both of these guys I think within
24 hours signed up paint the one dollar
sent me a question and I don't know
within 48 hours or something I'm here
recording response so Stan says hes
alive been following your content for a
while I appreciate your critical take on
veganism I also admire your auto direct
approach and I find many of your
critiques of academia intriguing this is
twice interesting or twice as
interesting perhaps he means this is
twice as interesting since you have an
academic background I've done original
research and interact with academic
cultures Thank You Stan I just pointed
out though that technically I have never
been an academic in the sense that I
have never been paid to be a university
professor or an equivalent role so I
know there's a different sense in which
you're using academic here and it's true
I've been an observer of academic
culture and I've if it's reacted with
everything else but I am NOT now may
never will be a university professor
which is a kind of strict definition of
what it means to be an active
I think that being said San continues
I'm thinking about how I can be
effective in ecological and vegan
activism your videos on different
political issues and also on seemingly
simple yet practical actions such as
writing a children's book or opening a
vegan restaurant resonate with me pause
I'll just say there I still talk about
that stuff face to face of the vegans by
a skype and through other through other
methods just the other day I was talking
to a guy I won't say who who's really
seriously arrested opening a vegan gym
and that Jim would have a juice bar and
you know the great thing about a GM has
opposed a restaurant of course you'd
have non vegans coming and using the gym
and learning about veganism under there
whereas I think many vegan restaurants
100% your clientele is already vegan are
almost on a percentage clientele um so
Stan continues I am however more
academically inclined ie I don't see
myself becoming a business person uh so
he mentions his bachelor's degree was in
sociology anthropology and he's now
considering getting a masters and a PhD
he has a very broad question he asks
what do you need to know to be a good
learner boy not the question i thought
was coming i thought it was gonna ask me
something about the institutional
reality of learning who what tools in
massachusetts you so man you're asking
me to give it to our mom's luck here i
can talk about this for ages uh more
specifically then how does this relate
to academia we'll look Stan last things
first if you are going to get a masters
degree and a PhD in anthropology or
anything like anthropology you are
putting yourself into a situation where
on the one hand you you may be expected
to be a complete autodidact because
nobody teaches you anything nobody helps
you with anything or on the other hand
you may be put in a situation where
you're really treated like the servant
of a professor we're really in a
survival capacity and in either case
making a wise choice has everything to
do with just one or two career academics
you're going to rely on you know you're
really putting your your trust in not an
academic system in general not even one
university in general you're putting
your trust in one
person who's going to be your supervisor
or possibly two people if you know the
two professors really cooperate as your
as your supervisors and that will make
or break your entire experience so it's
a fateful terrible decision to make I
when spoke to one professor who said
he'd have me as a student as a graduate
student when I spoke to him I forget the
exam he said something like he had 26 or
28 graduate students simultaneously he
was supervising like 26 to 28 graduate
students at the same time at point of oh
so it's not possible that you even see
each of your graduate students for one
hour a month you know in terms of your
supervision through the education you're
supposedly receiving he said no no no
you know he talks to it less often than
one hour every three monsters when you
get absolutely no education whatsoever
but his university what they did was
they compensated for this by putting the
graduate students into little groups
into a discussion circle and forcing
them to meet a couple times a week and
discuss their work in a circle of
equally ignorant stir this was in a
department of religion so I would have
been there as a scholar of Buddhism and
I would have been sitting down and
presenting my views my you know my
sophisticated views on put his
philosophy to a circle of people or the
other people one would be a scholar of
Islam won't be a scholar of medieval
Catholicism will might be a scholar of
modern Protestantism yeah the idea that
this is a jury of my peers especially in
a department of religion of worldly just
ridiculous even if there's a Hindu at
the table a Hindu specialist would never
be able to even you know the worst thing
is about Buddhism even if there was a
specialist in my Anna Buddhism or you
know Japanese Buddhism they would have
any clue what I was presenting you know
if you're doing advanced tera vaada
buddhist studies this is really
specialized you really need to be
working with people who appreciate
exactly that field and it's not a small
field I'm sorry but the space in between
India and China is enormous it includes
Thailand Cambodia Laos etc etc etc
so we shouldn't regard it as something
smaller marginalized but that that was a
terrible program so now look it's just
one example I guess I can talk for hours
about this sadly after that conversation
with that Professor there were many
other reasons why I was not interesting
that program but that fact alone say I'm
not interested if I would been stupid
enough to get that degree I would be
unemployed and unemployable PhD in
religion you want to perform you want to
perform funeral services I'd love to I'd
love to have a vegan funeral parlor man
that's it that's a great business but I
name it ain't academia uh so you know
looking at the actual education is being
offered to you is tremendously important
hilariously here actually in my school
in China there is one woman who's a
professor at a university where where
I'd spoken to another verse she's in the
same department to a you know an Asian
Studies department basically it doesn't
doesn't have that name and I'm Commodore
so it's interesting you're from that
University was for me I spoke to one of
the profs there about you know getting
in MA and PhD with you guys but you know
uh he actually got nervous and couldn't
answer some of my really simple
questions so I you know I wasn't
interested when that became clear to me
that he couldn't answer some very simple
questions and I remember said oh so look
what what kind of questions couldn't
answer about the program I said well for
example his program is supposed to be in
the Thai language so tie you know not
poly not Chinese not I've studied
something I was supposed to be tie as
the primary language would be I'd be
learning and he couldn't answer the
question of what was the name of the
instructor who actually taught the Thai
language at that University because it
wasn't listed on the website there was
nobody listed in the faculty you know
there was nobody officially with a PhD
was teaching the language woman said to
me oh that's that's funny cuz you know
um his wife teaches those class and I
said to her the missa paid that's
probably why he didn't want to answer
the question oh these setups it's so
many of these universities well the
person who actually teaches the language
who actually teaches that course doesn't
have a PhD so they're not listed on the
web
I ate so there's something going on in
the table they only got that job because
of who they're married to or who they're
sleeping with or because there's a favor
owed to them I know some people said
within Buddhist studies there some
people just never got the PhD and they
kind of sort of became professors anyway
and you know sort of code of silence
around it nobody asks nobody tells well
glad that only took five minutes huh I
thought the longest five minutes of my
life the point is sadly you have got to
dig before you commit to any program
read the person's book read their thesis
get their PhD thesis of the library on
interlibrary loan get the thesis that
got that earned them their PhD get out
every significant book they published
look at it decide for yourself it's
nonsense or not you know really try to
figure out how legit the program is in
terms of the education you're receiving
in terms of the whole process in terms
of who that person is and what kind of
personal integrity they have if they're
going to be your supervisor and an
anthropology it's a dangerous game um
and in terms of employment if you get
your PhD anthropology I don't have to
tell you your your you've got a you've
got a bright future bright future as a
security guard at the mall and I have to
get that PhD anthropology and all over
Asia have known people with a cheese
anthropology's who are coping with that
bleak future but okay that was the last
part of your question what do you need
to know to be a good learner here's my
here's my snappy but honest answer I
could talk about this for for an hour
okay you have to love being wrong we
don't learn from being wrong we learn
from noticing that we're wrong and then
pressing in deeper you have to develop
the habit of mine for some people it
comes naturally for some people second
nature for some people it's really hard
to get down of when you go through your
whether it's your rereading your own
work you're reading someone else's work
noticing oh this proves me wrong oh this
contradicts some attitude some
assumption i had and not feeling sad not
feeling dejected feeling delighted
because when you notice that you're
wrong
that's when you know for a fact that
you're learning something and that's
when you have the opportunity to really
learn something so I did a ton of
research within the last year think less
than less than 12 months I don't know
eight months I did a ton of research on
second line Island so that's an island
straight north of Japan straight East of
Russia straight northeast of beige
angrily and all three of those countries
tried to control it historically china
russia japan and i basically discovered
very simple facts the type of facts that
interests me about that place the
contradicted my expectations guarding to
my whole understanding of the history of
asia ancient and modern now is saqlain
island the most important place and
there's the world no but I realized oh
I'm wrong about something here that
there's something for me to learn from
the history of this place and I did a
ton of research on saqlain island now I
put it this way i think that made a much
greater educational opportunity out of
the courses I took in the last year then
otherwise would have been the case I
created an opportunity out of some
pretty boring courses that could have
just been could have just written
another essay about I don't know a
particular King in the history of Japan
or something and instead I dealt with
the set of dynamic questions with the
borders of those three empires met and
move back and forth and above all else
this reflects my own emphasis of course
my research also concerned the
indigenous people and what the geography
of Asia meant to them independent of
prior to those empires coming together
but that hopeful learning process it's
quite false to say that began with a
desire for knowledge with a hunger for
learning you can't desire to know
something you're not even aware of yet
when I first enrolled University I'd
never heard of poly I'd probably never
heard of Myanmar I probably couldn't
find Burma on the map or something when
I first enrolled the University and
whatever 1996 you don't I mean most of
my research interests as they would
develop as an adult man I nowhereness of
so there's no way you can start off
wanting
learn what you're going to learn I
realize you're based in the scripture
you're already adult I know I'm not
talking to a teenager but still at my
age nail this is still true so it's you
know desire to learn the hunger is it's
almost irrelevant what you need instead
is that you know to practice it's not
like falling scraping your knee and
getting up again noticing you made a
mistake noticing you're wrong about
something noticing your own ignorance
being really aware of the limits of your
own knowledge and then feeling energized
and motivated and I guess you know
activating that hunger that hunger
coming to the fore when you when you
realize you've been wrong that I'd say
is the most important thing and man I
like I said I could talk for an hour the
lessons you learn as an autodidact and I
think sadly in a field like anthropology
you you have to be in on a diet because
you'll get very little help from unless
you i hope if you're in a wonderful
program that's great i'm happy for you
but you're gonna have to teach yourself
languages you're gonna have to teach
yourself history and politics because
none of that's in the anthropology
programming most of what they do teach
you is going to be irrelevant to your
fieldwork you're just going to learn you
know melon offski etc you just can learn
canonical anthropology and you know
you've got to be on that you've got to
reinvent the wheel you got to reinvent
the meaning of life breaking into pieces
interrogate it put it back together
again that's the best part of
anthropology um so there is a lot more I
can say about that but if there's if
there's one habit of mind that I think
everyone can learn it's what I've just
mentioned because we don't learn from
making mistakes we learn from noticing
that we make mistakes you know and the
just as with the growth of a tree you
know it's not the density of the wood
it's not the size of the tree it's not
the thickness of the tree all the life
is out there at the limits of the tree
it's at the bark it's you know it's just
beneath the skin of the bark that the
tree is you know carrying out its whole
struggle to survive and thrive and
expand in the same way it's having an
acute awareness of the limits of your
knowledge so you notice when you run
into something you don't understand you
can't quite handle that I guess is my
short answer that's the crucial habit of
mind you need to work on thanks for the
one dollar hit me up